-- 1) What are the top 5 selling games in North America the sports category, as of 2000?
This can be helpful for businesses because it gives insights into historically top performing games in the Sports niche, and can help with understanding
consumer preferences in the sport game market. 

In this query,  I selected the name and North American sales from the video game table. I filtered it down to only include games in the genre of "sports", and 
filtered it even further so it would show games released during or after the year of 2000. Finally, I ordered it by sales in descending order and limited the
results by 5 to see the top 5 best selling sports games. 

SELECT name, year, na_sales FROM BIT_DB.games
WHERE genre = 'Sports' 
AND year >= 2000
ORDER BY na_sales DESC
LIMIT 5

--2) Globally, what are the top 5 selling gaming platforms of all time?
This is useful information because it provides insights onto how well each gaming console has done as a whole, over time. This can allow for prioritizing marketing efforts
and game developing strategies on proven successfully performing consoles. 

In this query, I selected the plaform and an aggregated sum of the global sales. I then grouped it by platform to show each global sale for each platform.
Next, I ordered it to show the top selling consoles and limited it to show the top 5. 

SELECT DISTINCT platform, SUM(global_sales) FROM BIT_DB.games
GROUP BY platform
ORDER BY SUM(global_sales) DESC
LIMIT 5

--3) Which Nintendo game is the most popular amongst the "shooter" genre?
This can specifically help Nintendo better understand their consumer preferences amongst the "shooter"genre, tailoring their marketing 
and managing their inventory more  effectively.

In this query,  I selected the names from the video game table, then filtered it to only show games that fell into the genre of "shooter". I then filtered it further 
to show games produced by Nintendo, then ordered it by sales in descending order to see the top selling Nintendo shooter games. 

SELECT name FROM BIT_DB.games
WHERE genre = 'Shooter'
AND publisher = 'Nintendo'
ORDER BY na_sales DESC

